AGDNS-4106-mv-articles-to-dns-kb-vol.2 (#443)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBaseDNS: docs/adguard-home/docker.md

This command will pull the latest stable version:

```sh
docker pull adguard/adguardhome
```

### Create directories for persistent configuration and data

The image exposes two volumes for data and configuration persistence. So, the following directories must be created on a suitable volume on the host system:

- Data directory, for example `/my/own/workdir`.

- Configuration directory, for example `/my/own/confdir`.

### Create and run the container

Use the following command to create a new container and run AdGuard Home:

```sh
docker run \
    -d \
    --name adguardhome \
    -p 53:53/tcp -p 53:53/udp \
    -p 67:67/udp -p 68:68/udp \
    -p 80:80/tcp -p 443:443/tcp \
    -p 443:443/udp -p 3000:3000/tcp \
    -p 853:853/tcp \
    -p 853:853/udp \
    -p 5443:5443/tcp -p 5443:5443/udp \
    -p 6060:6060/tcp \
    --restart unless-stopped \
    -v /my/own/workdir:/opt/adguardhome/work \
    -v /my/own/confdir:/opt/adguardhome/conf \
    adguard/adguardhome \
    ;
```

The AdGuard Home service admin panel can now be accessed via http://127.0.0.1:3000/ from a web browser.

The following port mappings might be needed:

- `-p 53:53/tcp -p 53:53/udp`: Required for plain DNS.

> - `-p 67:67/udp -p 68:68/tcp -p 68:68/udp`: Required for DHCP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-p 67:67/udp -p 68:68/tcp -p 68:68/udp`: Required for running a DHCP server.
```

> - `-p 80:80/tcp -p 443:443/tcp -p 443:443/udp -p 3000:3000/tcp`: Required for admin panel and [HTTPS/DNS-over-HTTPS][enc] server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-p 80:80/tcp -p 443:443/tcp -p 443:443/udp -p 3000:3000/tcp`: Required for the admin panel and for running a [HTTPS/DNS-over-HTTPS][enc] server.
```

- `-p 853:853/tcp`: Required for running a [DNS-over-TLS][enc] server.

- `-p 853:853/udp`: Required for running a [DNS-over-QUIC][enc] server.

- `-p 5443:5443/tcp -p 5443:5443/udp`: Required for running a [DNSCrypt] server.

> - `-p 6060:6060/tcp`: Required for running a pprof debug api.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-p 6060:6060/tcp`: Required for running a pprof debug API.
```

    docker pull adguard/adguardhome
    ```

2. Stop and remove currently running container (assuming the container is named `adguardhome`):

    ```sh
    docker stop adguardhome
    docker rm adguardhome
    ```

3. Create and start the container using the new image using the command from the previous section.

## Running development builds {#unstable}

Unstable development builds might be accessed using `edge` or `beta` tags. In order to use it, simply replace `adguard/adguardhome` with `adguard/adguardhome:edge` or `adguard/adguardhome:beta` in every command from the quick start. For example:

```sh
docker pull adguard/adguardhome:edge
```

## Additional configuration {#configuration}

Upon the first run, a file with the default values named `AdGuardHome.yaml` is created. This file can be modified while the AdGuard Home container is not running. Otherwise, any changes to the file will be lost because the running program will overwrite them.

The settings are stored in the [YAML] format. The documentation describing all configurable parameters and their values is available on [this page][conf].

[YAML]: https://yaml.org
[conf]: /adguard-home/configuration

### Health-check

> Recommended way to achieve a health check mechanism is to create a new image tailored for the target configuration. Implementations may use the special domain name `healthcheck.adguardhome.test.`, expecting it to resolve into NODATA answer. It imposes restrictions on usage of this particular name, so specifying it within the `blocked_hosts` array under the `dns` section of configuration file will break the healthcheck. The `allowed_clients` and `disallowed_clients` properties should allow the healthcheck client IP as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended way to implement a health check mechanism is to create a new image tailored for the target configuration. Implementations may use the special domain name `healthcheck.adguardhome.test`, expecting it to return a `NODATA` response. Specifying this particular name within the `blocked_hosts` array under the `dns` section of the configuration file will break the health check because it imposes restrictions on usage of this name. The `allowed_clients` and `disallowed_clients` properties should also allow the client IP health check.
```

---
title: Docker
sidebar_position: 11
---

This page provides specific guidelines for running AdGuard Home inside the Docker container.

## Quick start {#quick-start}

### Pull the Docker image

This command will pull the latest stable version:

```sh
docker pull adguard/adguardhome
```

### Create directories for persistent configuration and data

The image exposes two volumes for data and configuration persistence. So, the following directories must be created on a suitable volume on the host system:

> - `data`

Reviewer 2: Weird monospacing.  I'd just write:

```md
- Data directory, for example `/my/own/workdir`.
- Configuration directory, for example `/my/own/confdir`.
```

    **Example**: `/my/own/workdir`

- `configuration`

    **Example**: `/my/own/confdir`

### Create and run the container

Use the following command to create a new container and run AdGuard Home:

```sh

> docker run --name adguardhome \

Reviewer 2: This one is a mess.  First of all, it won't work because of the comment in the middle.  `--name` should be on its own line.  All flags and groups must be sorted.

1. Pull the new version from Docker Hub:

    ```sh
    docker pull adguard/adguardhome
    ```

2. Stop and remove currently running container (assuming the container is named `adguardhome`):

    ```sh
    docker stop adguardhome
    docker rm adguardhome
    ```

3. Create and start the container using the new image using the command from the previous section.

## Running development builds {#unstable}

Unstable development builds might be accessed using `edge` or `beta` tags. In order to use it, simply replace `adguard/adguardhome` with `adguard/adguardhome:edge` or `adguard/adguardhome:beta` in every command from the quick start. For example:

```sh
docker pull adguard/adguardhome:edge
```

## Additional configuration {#configuration}

Upon the first run, a file with the default values named `AdGuardHome.yaml` is created. This file can be modified while the AdGuard Home container is not running. Otherwise, any changes to the file will be lost because the running program will overwrite them.

The settings are stored in the [YAML] format. The documentation describing all configurable parameters and their values is available on [this page][conf].

[YAML]:  https://yaml.org

> [conf]:  https://adguard-dns.io/kb/adguard-home/configuration/

Reviewer 2: Unnecessary space after `:`.  One is enough.
